Hi, Mystery Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain an American dystopian
film called “The Darkest Minds.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care!
In the year 2043 in the United States, Children
and teenagers start to die because of a terrible
disease that only afflicts children.
This disease is contagious and spreads very
quickly.
However, this disease is only lethal to children
but not to adults.
As a result of this virus, 98% of children
and teens die, and only 2% of children survive
the disease, and the children who survive
become abnormal.
The disease triggers a special ability in
these children which makes them dangerous.
The government urges all parents to hand over
their surviving child to a camp for healing
and research.
And at that time, the President of America
- President Gray - claims that his son, Clancy,
has survived the disease and is currently
being treated at the camp for healing, and
his condition is getting better.
In the camp, doctors and scientists classify
children and their disorders into five colours:
First, it is the Greens; for children whose
intelligence has increased.
The second is blue; for those who have telekinetic
abilities.
The third group is Gold, who have the power
to manipulate electricity.
The first three groups are considered to be
quite safe, and are only being treated in
healing camps.
The fourth group is the group that is considered
dangerous, which is the red colour for those
who can control fire, and the fifth group
is Orange, the most dangerous group, for those
who can manipulate the minds of other people.
The red and Orange groups are very rare, and
the government considers them very dangerous
and orders them to be killed immediately on
sight.
The film takes us to a setting where a little
girl named Ruby is celebrating her birthday
with her parents.
They are worried because all the children
around are dead, and only Ruby is still alive.
At night, Ruby comes to her mother’s room
to calm her down, but suddenly she has a strange
vision when she holds her mother’s hand.
In the morning, her mother does not recognize
Ruby as her child anymore, and her mother
calls the government to take Ruby away to
the healing camp.
Finally, Ruby is taken with the other children
to the healing camp.
Every child brought to the camp, gets examined
by the Doctor to determine what abnormality
they have.
Ruby is taken to the examination where she
is identified as being ‘orange’ , the
most dangerous group that can control other
people’s minds.
Therefore, the doctor immediately wants to
inject Ruby with lethal injection.
But Ruby is able to control his mind and convince
him that she is ‘green’, the ones whose
intelligence has improved rapidly and is not
considered dangerous.
On the camp, there are three groups; Green,
Blue, and Gold, but there are no red nor orange,
because they are all killed immediately on
sight.
Ruby then lives her life in the camp as a
green.
Six years have passed, Ruby, who is working
in the camp, is scolded by the camp captain
for making a mistake.
The captain feels that Ruby is more stupid
than the other people there, and grows suspicious.
However, Ruby’s campmate tries to defend
Ruby and insults the camp captain which infuriates
him, and as a result, the captain takes her
away for punishment.
The children are treated really badly in the
camp.
Later at the camp, frequency tests are often
held.
In short, this frequency test is a test that
uses a very loud sound whose frequency can
only be heard by the children.
During this frequency test, Ruby faints, and
she is taken to a doctor called Doctor Cate
for further examination.
From the examination, the officer finds out
that Ruby is an orange.
Doctor Cate secretly writes a note to Ruby
that they have found out Ruby is an orange
and will kill her immediately.
And Doctor Cate tells Ruby to meet her in
the boiler room.
In a panic, Ruby then directly goes to the
boiler room, and in there, Doctor Cate is
waiting for her.
By that time, the alarm has been sounded for
an intrusion, and all officers are ordered
to look for Ruby.
With Doctor Cate’s help, Ruby manages to
leave using Doctor Cate’s car.
But at the checkpoint, Ruby is almost caught,
but Ruby uses her power to control the officer’s
mind to let them escape.
Finally, after six years, Ruby manages to
get out of the camp.
In the car, Cate gives Ruby a panic button
that can be activated as a tracker if she
is in danger.
Cate explains that she is part of the Children’s
League, whose mission is to save children
from the camp and fight the government.
Cate takes her to a gas station to meet her
boyfriend, Rob, who is also on a child rescue mission.
But when Ruby almost falls and holds Rob’s
hand, she has a vision of Rob, who seems to
like abusing children.
Ruby becomes suspicious of their motives.
When Ruby changes her clothes at a shop, she
suddenly sees a small girl who can manipulate electricity
The girl runs away when she sees Ruby, and
Ruby chases after her.
The girl then gets into a van, and Ruby follows
her to hide from Doctor Cate.
The little girl is called Zu, and she is a
mute and always wears gloves due to her ability.
Zu is accompanied by two friends called Liam
and Charles.
Liam is a blue with telekinesis ability, while
the intelligent Charles is a green.
They agree to go with Ruby and help her escape
from Cate.
On the way, there is a woman who tries to
chase them; Her name is Lady Jane.
Lady Jane is a child hunter who works for
money.
While in pursuit, Cate also tries to pursue
them.
However, Liam uses his telekinesis power to
harass them by scattering the leaves, cracking
the road, and even knocking down the trees.
As a result, they manage to escape.
They also begin to get to know each other
better, but Ruby does not reveal her identity
as Orange and lies that she is a Green.
Liam explains that they are on their way down
the East River to a group of children led
by a mysterious person nicknamed the Slip
Kid.
They don’t know the identity of the Slip
kid, but it looks like he’s an Orange who
can control people’s minds.
He also explains that the Children’s League
led by Dr. Cate is not a good place to stay.
He used to be in the Children’s League,
where they train children to use their abilities
to fight against the government.
Liam didn’t like the idea of becoming a
soldier, and so he eventually left the League.
Meanwhile, Ruby and the others spend the night
at an inn. Ruby remembers the time with her parents.
It is revealed that she couldn’t really
control her ability, and because of that,
she accidentally erased her parent’s memories
of her when she was a kid.
While sleeping, Ruby accidentally touches
Zu’s hand and then gets a memory that Zu
where she used to be in a government camp,
but eventually, she and hundreds of other
children rebelled and fled, and the rebellion
was led by Liam.
Because of the trauma during her life at the
camp, Zu became mute.
In the morning, they go to a long-abandoned
mall to shop and pick up some supplies.
They really enjoy their moment together, since
they never have a normal childhood.
But suddenly, their bodies are lifted and
controlled by a group of people.
Luckily, Zu uses her electric power to stop
it.
It turns out that they are also a group of
children who have telekinesis abilities.
At night, they talk about the children’s
association in the East River and its very
secret nature.
They know where East River is, but they can’t
tell Ruby and her friends the exact location
because it’s a secret they cannot tell.
However, Ruby uses her telepathy secretly
to make one of them unconsciously gives a
clue about the location, which is the letter
E-D-O.
Later that night, the genius Charles tries
to figure out what E-D-O is, but he finds nothing
However, after speaking with Ruby about her
father being a cop, Charles starts to realize
that E-D-O might be a radio frequency.
He concludes that E represents 5, D represents
four, and O represents 0.
And he uses the number 5-4-0 for the radio
frequency.
Finally, they receive a message from the frequency,
and finds that the location is at Lake Prince Virginia.
The next day, on the road, they are ambushed
by Lady Jane, the child hunter, and she uses
the sound frequency of her rifle to incapacitate
the children.
Luckily Ruby uses her power to control Lady
Jane’s mind, and gives Jane a deserving punishment.
Liam and the others are shocked that all this
time Ruby is Orange.
It turns out that Ruby has lied to them all
this time because she isn’t proud of her abilities
Some time later, Ruby confides with Liam about
her past.
And they start to fall in love with each other.
Finally, they continue their journey and arrive
at Lake Prince Virginia.
There, they meet other children like themselves.
They are so amazed because they haven’t
seen that many children in a very long time.
They also meet the Slip Kid, and it turns
out that all this time, he is the son of the
President, Clancy Gray.
Clancy is an orange, just like Ruby
At night, they have a party.
Liam and Ruby dance together romantically.
In the morning, they are all given an assignment,
and Ruby is assigned to help Clancy.
Clancy tells Ruby that he is one of the first
people to survive the terrible disease, and
the government used him to experiment to create
a cure.
But the Doctor failed.
And his father, the President, lied to the
public that they had found the cure.
Clancy eventually escaped and formed a children’s
association where all the children can live safely.
Clancy then teaches Ruby how to control her
power and control other people’s minds without
touching their hands, and Ruby finally succeeds.
In return, Ruby teaches him how to erase people’s
memories.
However, during this process, Clancy controls
her mind and tries to kiss her.
Ruby is distraught, and she hits him and leaves.
Ruby and her friends finally decide to leave
the place.
But while on the run, they are ambushed by
troops from the camp.
Liam tries to fight back, but suddenly he
becomes unconscious.
It turns out that Clancy has made him unconscious.
It is revealed that all this time, Clancy
has been the mastermind behind it all.
Clancy has contacted the Camp captain to arrest
all the children.
Clancy has been manipulating his father, the
President, and taking control of the government
using his power.
His main goal is to create his army of children
with superpowers so that he would never get
abused by anyone.
Ruby then uses her power to make the camp
captain commit suicide, and Zu controls the
electricity to create a trick to escape.
Suddenly armed forces arrive with helicopters
to arrest all the children.
The troops brought the children in the red
group who can control fire; it turns out that
they are secretly weaponized by the government;
and they set the camp on fire.
The battle finally ensues.
The red army tries to burn Liam and his friends,
but Liam uses his power to retaliate.
But suddenly, Clancy comes in the middle of
the battle and manipulates the minds of all
the children there.
Liam and the others are forced to leave the
location and leave Ruby there, because only
Ruby has the power to face Clancy.
Ruby uses her ability to create her army.
However, Clancy shows his brutal nature, and
controls their mind to kill themselves by
shooting each other.
Clancy then tries to use his new memory-erasing
powers to turn Ruby to his side, and forget
her friends.
But Ruby uses her power to control the pilot’s
mind, and the helicopter crashes and explodes.
Ruby manages to escape the explosion with
the help of Charles, but unfortunately, Charles
gets burnt, and he is severely injured, leaving
Ruby no choice but to use her panic button
to call the Children’s League for help.
The next morning, the League squad comes to
pick them all up.
Charles is immediately taken to the hospital
for treatment, while Zu is adopted by a good family
But Liam is arrested by the League because
he has betrayed the League before.
The League considers Liam knows too much about
the League to be left free.
Ruby meets Kate and bargains to release Liam
by promising to be a soldier in the League,
and fight against the government alongside
them.
However, Kate is sure that Liam will never
leave without Ruby, and he won’t let Ruby
join the League.
Finally, Ruby meets Liam.
Liam explains that he wants the two of them
to stay together and discuss plans for both
of them in the future.
But Ruby is forced to erase herself from Liam’s
memory, so that Liam can be released and so
that she can join and fight with the Children’s
League.
All memories of Ruby from their first meeting
in the Van, chatting together and dancing
together, are all gone from his memory.
Suddenly Liam doesn’t remember anything
about Ruby, and Liam leaves.
Ruby then cries as she sees Liam leave.
At the end of the story, Ruby joins and trains
with the Children’s League.
But there is more!
The struggle of Ruby and her friends is far
from over ,because it turns out that Clancy
is still alive.
And a fierce battle between the two sides
will be inevitable.
Subscribe for more videos like this, turn
on notifications, and leave a like to help
the channel out.
Thank you for watching.